How to Label Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   <!-- DO NOT EDIT BY HAND: it should be generated using the carpenter       -->

.. raw:: html

   <!-- R package https://github.com/fmichonneau/carpenter                    -->

.. raw:: html

   <!-- and running:                                                          -->

.. raw:: html

   <!--   carpenter::document_github_labels("data/github_labels.csv")         -->

.. raw:: html

   <!-- the canonical definition of the GitHub labels is stored in the CSV    -->

.. raw:: html

   <!-- file hosted https://github.com/carpentries/handbook/blob/master/data/github_labels.csv -->

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <h3>

“status” labels

.. raw:: html

   </h3>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

help wanted

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #DCECC7

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Looking for Contributors

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Issue reviewed by Maintainers, and ready to be
addressed. Maintainers are looking for Contributors to address this
issue, anyone is welcome to work on addressing the issue.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

status:in progress

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #9BCC65

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Contributor working on issue

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: A Contributor is actively working on addressing the
issue, this label should be used once someone has been assigned the
issue. Because, we can only assign people using GitHub’s interface when
they are part of the organization, the assignment is done by tagging
them in a comment of the issue. The Maintainer should set an initial
deadline for a PR to be submitted. We suggest 7 days, but it can be
adapted to the discretion of the Maintainer depending on the complexity
of the task.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

status:changes requested

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #679F38

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Waiting for Contributor to update PR

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Maintainers have reviewed the pull request, and
requested changes. Waiting on the Contributor to implement these
changes.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

status:wait

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #FFF2DF

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Progress dependent on another issue or conversation

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Progress on addressing issue or merging PR is
dependent on another issue or ongoing conversation and cannot be
addressed at this time. Ideally this other conversation should be
referenced in the comments.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

status:refer to cac

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #FFDFB2

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Curriculum Advisory Committee input needed

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Maintainers need advice from the Curriculum Advisory
Committee to make a decision on how to proceed with the issue or pull
request.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

status:need more info

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #EE6C00

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: More information needed

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Not enough information is provided to proceed with the
issue or pull request.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

status:blocked

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #E55100

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Progress on addressing issue blocked

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: A technical problem is hindering progress. A
Maintainer or someone else in the community should be notified to ensure
that progress is being made.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

status:out of scope

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #EEEEEE

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Proposed changes are out of scope

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Changes proposed in the issue or in the pull request
doesn’t fall within the scope of the lesson

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

status:duplicate

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #BDBDBD

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Issue or PR already exists

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: The concern raised in the issue or pull request has
already been mentioned. This previous issues/PR should be mentioned in
the comment before this label is used.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <h3>

“type” labels

.. raw:: html

   </h3>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:typo text

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #F8BAD0

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Typo in text for the lesson,

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Typo in the text/code of the lesson

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:bug

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #EB3F79

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Code included in the lesson needs to be fixed

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Issue about the code, including challenges, answers.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:formatting

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #AC1357

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Formatting needs to be fixed

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Issue about something being wrong in the formatting of
the lesson

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:template and tools

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #7985CB

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Issue about template and tools

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Issue or feature request about a technical aspect of
the lesson (e.g., in the scripts used to render the lesson), including
the documentation of these tools. Pull requests should probably be
directed to https://github.com/carpentries/styles

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:instructor guide

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #00887A

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Issue with the instructor guide

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Issue related to the content of the instructor guide.
Best suited to be addressed by someone familiar with the content of the
lesson

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:discussion

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #B2E5FC

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Discussion or feedback about the lesson

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Issue used to ask a question about how the lesson is
taught, ask for clarification. Such issues might indicate that the
instructor guide or the documentation may need to be updated.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:enhancement

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #7FDEEA

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Propose enhancement to the lesson

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Proposal to add new content to the lesson (e.g.,
introducing additional function, library, command, flag), or adding more
technical detail on a topic already covered in the lesson. Such issues
may need to be considered by the infrastructure sub-committee, the
curriculum advisory committee, or other relevant group.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:clarification

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #00ACC0

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Suggest change for make lesson clearer

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Part of a lesson which, while not incorrect (i.e., not
a bug) is presented in a way that is potentially confusing or
misleading. Existing content could benefit from rephrasing or
rearranging.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

type:teaching example

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #CED8DC

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: PR showing how lesson was modified in a workshop

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: PR that illustrates how someone modified the lesson in
their workshop. Not intended to be merged, but as a way to document how
other instructors have used the lesson. Can be closed once the label has
been applied.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <h3>

“difficulty” labels

.. raw:: html

   </h3>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

good first issue

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #FFEB3A

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Good issue for first-time contributors

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: Good issue for a new Contributor to our lesson.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <h3>

“priority” labels

.. raw:: html

   </h3>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

high priority

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Hex code: #D22E2E

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Short Description: Need to be addressed ASAP

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Long Description: For issues and pull requests that needs to be
addressed as soon as possible because the lesson uses code that doesn’t
work anymore or includes information that is out of date.

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

How to Populate a GitHub Repository with these Labels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `carpenter <https://github.com/fmichonneau/carpenter>`__ R pacakge
provides helper functions to create these labels from a CSV file using
the GitHub API. To use the GitHub API, you need to obtain a GitHub
Personal Access Token (PAT). This PAT is a way for GitHub to identify
you and should be treated as a password.

1. Once you have installed `R <https://cran.r-project.org/>`__ and
   `RStudio <https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download>`__,
   at the RStudio console, install the ``remotes`` package:

.. code:: r

   install.packages("remotes")

1. Go to https://github.com/settings/tokens, and click on the “Generate
   new token” button.

2. Choose a name that will help you remember what you use this token
   for, and click on the ``repo`` box. Finish the creation of the token
   by clicking on “Generate token” at the bottom of the page. The token
   will be displayed on the screen.

3. Using RStudio or text editor, open (or create if it doesn’t exist), a
   ``~/.Renviron`` file, and add (replacing the XXXX with your actual
   PAT):

   ::

      GITHUB_PAT=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

4. Restart RStudio and check that your PAT is available by typing:

   .. code:: r

      Sys.getenv("GITHUB_PAT")

   If everything worked, you should see your PAT being displayed. If
   something didn’t work it will display empty quotes (``""``).

5. Use the ``remotes`` package to install ``carpenter``. Type at the R
   console in RStudio:

   .. code:: r

      remotes::install_github("fmichonneau/carpenter")

6. Make sure you have downloaded the CSV file that contains the
   information about the GitHub labels. It is in the repository for The
   Carpentries handbook in the data folder.

7. Load the ``carpenter`` package and create the labels on one
   repository:

   .. code:: r

      library(carpenter)
      create_github_labels(label_csv = "~/path/to/csv/file/github_labels.csv",
        owner = "owner_of_github_repo",
        repo = "name_of_github_repo",
        delete_previous = FALSE)

   If you set ``delete_previous`` to ``TRUE``, all existing labels will
   be deleted from the repository (and removed from issues/PR that had
   it).
